# wealth-and-health
These files relate to my project entitled "Does Wealth Lead to Health? Exploring the Association Between GDP and Life Expectancy Over Time". This project was completed for STAT-S 670: Exploratory Data Analysis
taught by Professor Julia Fukuyama at Indiana University Bloomington in Spring 2023. See the "Instructions" file for the goals and constraints of this project. 

As the title of the project implies, I explore the association between gross domestic product per capita and life expectancy over time with country-year as the unit of analysis. I use the gapminder dataset, which collects this information on countries around the world every five years. Much of the analysis is based on data visualization, where I examine the relationship between the variables of interest (economic growth, time, life expectancy, and location) in bivariate, trivariate, and hypervariate plots. In these plots, I utilize LOESS smoothers (weighted by country population) to discern relationships. Armed with the insights from this exploratory data analysis, I then build two models with life expectancy as the dependent variable: a linear model for non-African countries and a non-parametric model for countries in Africa. I finish the analysis testing thet assumptions of these two models and interpreting their coefficients / fitted values. I find that economic growth is indeed related to life expectancy, and that the nature of this relationship varies between countries in Africa and countries not in Africa.
